.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH KTIKZ 1 "May 12, 2010"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH NAME
ktikz \- editor for the TikZ language
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR ktikz
[Qt\-options] [KDE\-options] [url | file]

.SH DESCRIPTION
KTikZ is a small application to assist in the creation of diagrams and
drawings  using the TikZ macros from the LaTeX package "pgf".
It consists of a text editor pane in
which the TikZ code for the drawing is edited and a preview pane showing the
drawing as rendered by latex. The preview pane can be updated in real-time.
Common drawing tools, options and styles are available from the menus to
assist the coding process.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS Generic options:
.TP
.B  \-\-help
Show help about options
.TP
.B  \-\-help\-qt
Show Qt specific options
.TP
.B  \-\-help\-kde
Show KDE specific options
.TP
.B  \-\-help\-all
Show all options
.TP
.B  \-\-author
Show author information
.TP
.B \-v,  \-\-version
Show version information
.TP
.B  \-\-license
Show license information

.SH SEE ALSO
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Center.  You can also enter the URL
.BR help:/ktikz/
directly into konqueror or you can run
.BR "`khelpcenter help:/ktikz/'"
from the command-line.
.BR

.SH AUTHOR
\fBktikz\fP was written by Florian Hackenberger <florian@hackenberger.at>
and Glad Deschrijver <glad.deschrijver@gmail.com>.
.PP
This manual page was written by 
Agustin Martin Domingo <agustin.martin@hispalinux.es>
and 
Stuart Prescott <stuart+debian@nanonanonano.net>
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
